=head1 NAME

Sys::Manage::CmdFile - Systems management commands file processor


=head1 SYNOPSIS


 use Sys::Manage::CmdFile;
 Sys::Manage::CmdFile->dofile(script file, command file);
 Sys::Manage::CmdFile->dofile(script file, command file => history file);
 Sys::Manage::CmdFile->dofile('bin/smcmv.pl', 'var-test/soon-do' => 'soon-done');
 Sys::Manage::CmdFile->dofile(sub{}(row),...)


=head1 DESCRIPTION

See C<dofile> and C<dofck> methods below.

=over


=item new () -> new object

Creates a new object.



=item dofck (C<dofile> args)

=item dofck (sub{}(commands file, ? history file, ? redirect log file),...)

Checks C<dofile> commands file for command rows present.
If commands found, executes script or sub{} given once, for file names.

'$_' for sub{} contains file names and redirection.



=item dofile (? script file || false, commands file, ? history file || false, ? redirect log file || false)

=item dofile (sub{}(command row, redirect log file),...)

Processes text file interpreting rows as script command lines
and moving rows proceeded to history file if given.

Command file name may be relative to script directory.
History and redirect file names may be relative to the command file directory.

'$_' for sub{} contains command row and redirection been evaluating.



=item $ENV{SMCFP}

Name of the command file be processing, 
may be used in L<Sys::Manage::Cmd|Sys/Manage/Cmd> script to verify permission.


=item $ENV{SMSECS}

Number of seconds to spend for processing.
Decremented by C<dofck> and C<dofile> for subsequent operation.


=back

=head1 LICENSE

This is free software; 
you can use redistribute it and/or modify it 
under the same terms as Perl itself.



=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>, for yuri

=cut

