=head1 NAME

Sys::Manage::Conn - Connection to remote Perl


=head1 SYNOPSIS

=over

=item Script

  use Sys::Manage::Conn;
  my $s =Sys::Manage::Conn->new([@ARGV], -option=>value,...)->connect();

  $s->reval('print "Hello World,"\\n";');
  $s->rcmd('dir');
  $s->reval(['cd'], ';print "Hello World,"\\n";');
  $s->reval('print "Hello World,"\\n";', ['logname']);
  print $s->rfread('/etc/passwd');
  $s->rfget('c:\\autoexec.sys', $s->{-tmp} .'.txt');
  $s->rdo('/my/files/script.pl');


=item Command line utility

  #!perl -w
  use Sys::Manage::Conn;
  my $s =Sys::Manage::Conn->connect([@ARGV], -exec=>1, -option=>value,...);
  exit($?>>8);

  script 0 rcmd		dir
  script 0 fget		/etc/passwd	/secure/passwd
  script 0 fget	-p	/etc		/secure/etc
  script 0 rdo		/my/files/script.pl
  script 0 rdo	-p	"%HOME%\packages\package.zip\start.bat"


=item Command line

  script -vde node:port user:password other-args

  (all command line arguments are optional, at least first will be 'node' or 0)

	-v		verbose mode, from 'v1' to 'v3'
	-d		debug mode (step-by-step execution)
	-e		execute rest of command line
	node		remote computer name or tcp/ip address, 0 for local
	port		remote computer IO::Socket::INET server port
	user		user name on remote computer
	password	password to login

	other-args (using '-e' or '-exec=>1'; '?' - optional):

		rcmd	?-'o-e-		os-command	argumets-list
		lcmd	?-		os-command	argumets-list
		rdo	?-o-e-p		?os-command !	local-script	?args
		fget	?-'mp		remote-source	local-target
		mget	?-'mr		remote-dir	local-dir	mask	?seconds
		fput	?-'mp		local-source	remote-target
		mput	?-'mr		local-dir	remote-dir	mask	?seconds
		agtfile	?-l		agent-script

		where:
			-'	quote remote arg with "'"
			-o-	refuse STDOUT
			-e-	refuse STDERR
			-m	move file(s)
			-p, -z	pack file(s)
			-r	recurse subdirectories
			-l	loop agent script

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module starts on remote computer Perl command line
implementing L<IO::Socket::INET|IO/Socket/INET> server
to accept Perl source strings and return results.
This may be considered as an agent implementation within Perl command line.
The source may be seen using C<-v>3 option or C<-echo>=3.

There may be various methods to start Perl command line mentioned
and corresponding C<-init> and C<-perl> values.
Default is 'wmi' for Windows and 'rsh' otherwise.

The security is only tcp/ip address of manager, 
C<-chkip> value with default.



This module is implemented and tested with Perl 5.6.0 on Windows 2000.


=head1 ABOUT REMOTE AGENT CONSTRUCTIONS

=over

There may be a several variants.


=item Agent as a Perl Command Line

This variant is currently implemented.

Agent is a Perl command line (about 300 bytes) started via some remote command service:

  perl -e "use IO::Socket;$r_=IO::Socket::INET->new(LocalPort=>8008,Reuse=>1,Listen=>1);$m_=$r_->accept();$r_->close;die if $m_->peerhost ne '127.0.0.1';while(defined($r_=$m_->getline)){$@=undef;$r_=eval $r_;$m_->printflush(\"\n----ret\$?\$!\$\@: $?\t$!\t$^E\t$@\t$r_\n\")}"

Additional agent code may be added to the first command evaluation.

Advantages: lite agent, lite load.

Disadvantages: agent size limitation.



=item Agent loader as a Perl Command Line

Agent will be loaded via a Perl command line (about 200 bytes) started via some remote command service:

  perl -e "use IO::Socket;$r_=IO::Socket::INET->new(LocalPort=>8008,Reuse=>1,Listen=>1);$m_=$r_->accept();$r_->close;do eval $m_->getline if $m_->peerhost ne '127.0.0.1'"

The first row transferred will be an agent loader, it should accept entire agent code and store it into temporary file.

Advantages: agent may be more complex.

Disadvantages: increased agent startup load.



=item Separate Agent

Agent is a script file to be distributed and started on computers.

Advantages: agent may be very complex.

Disadvantages: agent distribution and manager authorization should be implemented,
at least manager's IP address should be considered.

Note: C<agtfile> method below produces a simple separate agent file 
may be used with C<-init> => ''.


=back

=head1 SLOTS

=over

=item SLOTS

The usually slots are 
C<-init>, C<-node>, C<-user>, C<-echo> and C<-debug>, C<-argv>.

=item -agent

=item $m_

	=> IO::Socket::INET

Connection to remote agent. Established by C<connect>. Used internally.

Evaluated on remote agent code may use C<$m_> variable.



=item -argv

	=> [rest of @ARGV unparsed]

Command line arguments for script itself.
Parsing C<set>([@ARGV]), some arguments first may be found for module,
but arguments rest may be for script only.
So, script may access it's own arguments via {C<-argv>}->[arg number].



=item -cfg

=item -config

	=> false | true | filename

Instruction to load configuration file.
Default file name is 'Sys-Manage-Conn-cfg.pl'.
It will be searched alike L<Sys::Manage::Cmd|Sys/Manage/Cmd>
configuration file.
$_ will contain object to be configured.



=item -chkip

	=> gethostbyname | ''

TCP/IP address of manager (local node or host).
Default value is given using 
L<gethostbyname|perlfunc>
(L<Sys::Hostname|Sys/Hostname> or L<Win32::NodeName|Win32>).


=item -debug

	=> false | true

=item -d

Debug mode.
Automatically sets C<-echo>=3.


=item -dirm

	=> directory marker sign

Directory marker, '/' or '\', filled automatically using $0 or $^O.


=item -dirw

	=> working directory

Directory where script started.
Obtained using L<Cwd|Cwd> or L<Win32::GetCwd|Win32>.


=item -echo

=item -v

	=> 0 | 1 | 2 | 3

Echo printout level, verbosity level.

0 - none.

1 - print commands invoking alike C<rcmd> or C<reval>.

2 - print remote stdout and stderr accepting

3 - print perl sources transfer

See also C<-debug>, C<-progress>.



=item -errchild

	=> remote $?

=item -errexit

	=> remote $?>>8

=item -erros

	=> remote $!

=item -erros1

	=> remote $^E

=item -erreval

	=> remote $@

Errors from perl source remotely evaluated.
Accepted via C<getret>,
where also local $? and $@ are filled from C<-errchild> and C<-erreval>.

See also C<-reteval>.



=item -error

	=> 'die' | 'warn' | false

Error or exception processing behaviour.


=item -exec

=item -e

	=> false | true

Execute C<-argv> within C<-connect>.
The first argument may be a method name
(C<rcmd>, C<reval>, C<fput>, C<fget>,...).
Default considered as C<rcmd>.



=item -init

	=> 'wmi' | 'rsh' | 'telnet' | sub{}(self, agent command line) || ''

Remote agent initiation method.
WMI ('wmi') is default for Windows, 'rsh' otherwise.
Empty agent initiation may be used with separate agent may be written.
See also C<-perl>.


=item -mark

	=> '----ret$?$!$@: '

Command output end marker.
Used by C<getret> to finish C<-agent> reading.
Output of the remote execution should not contain C<-mark> value.


=item -node

	=> remote node

Remote computer name or TCP/IP address to C<connect> to.
See also C<-port>.


=item -pack

	=> 'zip' | 'arj' | 'tar'

=item -packx

	=> undef | 'unzip' |...

Filesystem packer and unpacker used to provide C<-p+>.
There may be a full path to call utility.


=item -perl

	=> 'perl'

Discoverable file name of remote Perl interpreter.
Default is 'perl', rely on $ENV{path}.


=item -prgcn

	=> f($0)

=item -prgfn

	=> f($0)

Common and full names of script,
filled automatically using $0.
Common name is used in C<-tmp> value.


=item -progress

	=> true | false

Output progress with C<-echo>.


=item -pswd

	=> false | password string

Password to login C<-user> to C<-node> during C<connect>.
Default behaviour tries without password


=item -port

	=> 8008

Remote agent TCP/IP port number to listen by L<IO::Socket::INET|IO/Socket/INET>.
See also C<-node>.



=item -reject

	=> undef | sub{}(self, method, options, argument,...) -> reject message

Commands reject condition.
May be useful supplying L<Sys::Manage::Cmd|Sys/Manage/Cmd> service to suboperators.

L<$ENV{SMCFP}|Sys/Manage/CmdFile>,
L<$ENV{SMELEM}|Sys/Manage/Cmd>,
L<$ENV{SMLIB}|Sys/Manage/Cmd>
may be mentioned in conditions.

See also L<Sys::Manage::Cmd -reject|Sys/Manage/Cmd>.



=item -retbps

	=> 0 || bytes per seconds

Data transfer speed, the last determined by C<fget> or C<fput> value.
Used in time limit conditions, i.e. in C<mget> and C<mput>.



=item -retexc

	=> false || true

Mark of excess achieved, i.e. time limit in C<mget> or C<mput>.



=item -reteval

	=> value or data structure

Result of L<eval|perlfunc>uation of remote Perl source
accepted by C<getret>.
Result of last C<reval>.



=item -tmp

=item $t_

	=> temporary file name

Temporary file name.
Filled using $ENV{TEMP} or $ENV{tmp}, C<-dirm>, C<-prgcn>.
May be used to construct name of temporary file or directory.

Evaluated on remote agent code may use C<$t_> variable.


=item -timeout

	=> undef

Network operations timeout.


=item -title

	=> 'Remote command stream'

Title to display sometimes...


=item -user

	=> false | user name

Remote user name to login to C<-node> inside C<connect>.
C<-pswd> also may be required.
Default is current user.


=item -wmi

	=> undef | WMI object

Windows WMI L<Win32::OLE|Win32/OLE> connection, if opened by C<connect>.


=item -wmisil

	=> undef | 4 | 3 | [4,3]

Windows WMI security impersonation level(s) to use.
See MSDN 'Platform SDK: Windows Management Instrumentation'.

4 - delegate.
Allows objects to permit other objects to use the credentials of the caller.
Windows 2000 and later.
In 'Active Directory Users and Computers'
the account of Agent computer must be marked as 'Trusted for delegation'
and the account of Manager computer must not be marked as 'Account is sensitive and cannot be delegated'.
Manager computer, agent computer and the domain controller must be members of the same domain or in trusted domains.
See MSDN 'Connecting to a 3rd Computer-Delegation'.

3 - impersonate. 
Allows objects to use the credentials of the caller.
Recommended in MSDN for Scripting API for WMI calls.
See MSDN 'Setting the Default Process Security Level Using VBScript'.

[4,3] - start with 4 and decrease to 3 if security error.

undef - default encoded in C<connect>, 3 without password, [4,3] with password,
alike some Windows utilities behaviour.


=item -wmisis

	=> undef | 1

Start agent as a Windows service using 'System' account and interacting with desktop.

Ignored for agent computers without 'Win32_Service' WMI class.

To allow access from agent to network shares on file server
special Registry parameters may be required (see in Microsoft Technet):

	'HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\LanmanServer\Parameters\NullSessionShares' (REG_MULTI_SZ) = share-names
	'HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\LSA\RestrictAnonymous' (REG_DWORD) = 0

C<connect> automatically installs service 'Sys-Manage-C<-chkip>.pl' if it is not already exists.
Required files are written to '$ENV{SystemRoot}\System32' directory during installation:

	'instsrv.exe' and 'srvany.exe' Windows Resource Kit utilities, if not already exists.
	'Sys-Manage*.pl' agent script.


=back


=head1 METHODS

=over

=item METHODS

The main methods are C<new>, C<connect>, 
C<reval>, C<rcmd>, C<fput>, C<fget>, C<rdo>.


=item agtfile (?-options, target file) -> success

Writes separate agent script file to be used with C<-init> => ''.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-l>.


=item connect (-option=>value,...) -> self

=item connect ([command line arguments], -option=>value,...) -> self

=item connect ('class', [command line arguments], -option=>value,...) -> new object

Connects to remote C<-node>,
using C<-init>, C<-user>, C<-pswd>.
Starts remote C<-perl> 
with command line L<IO::Socket::INET|IO/Socket/INET> agent on C<-port>,
connects C<-agent> to it.



=item disconnect () -> self

Closes connection opened.



=item error (error message) -> error value

Proceeds error according to C<-error>.
Returns undef, if returns.



=item fget (?-options, remote file name, local file name) -> success

=item rfget (?-options, remote file name, local file name) -> success

Reads remote file and writes it locally.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-m>, C<-b->, C<-s+>, C<-p+>.

Default C<REMOTE SOURCE EXPANSION>: C<do{>.

See also C<rfread>.



=item fput (?-options, local file name, remote file name) -> success

=item rfput (?-options, local file name, remote file name) -> success

Reads local file and writes it remotely.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-m>, C<-b->, C<-s+>, C<-p+>.

Default C<REMOTE SOURCE EXPANSION>: C<do{>.

With C<-p+> option, archiver will not be used if local file is already packed.

See also C<rfwrite>.


=item isscript ('lib name') -> exists?

Checks if $0 is from library specified,
alike L<Sys::Manage::Cmd::isscript|Sys/Manage/Cmd>,
uses $ENV{SMDIR} and $ENV{SMLIB}.
Useful for C<-reject>.


=item lcmd (?-options, command and arguments, ?filter sub{}) -> success

Locally executes command given.
Command and arguments will be (re)quoted automatically,
but single command will not be (re)quoted to allow rich shell command lines.


=item lfread (?-options, local file name) -> content

Reads local file and returns it's content.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-b->.

See also C<rfread>, C<lfwrite>.



=item lfwrite (?-options, local file name, content) -> success

Writes to local file content given.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-b->.

See also C<rfwrite>, C<lfread>.



=item lls (?-options, path, ?filter, ?attr get, ?container''[]{}) -> list || success

Lists local directory.
Returns list or container given, undefined on error.
Container may be string, hash ref, array ref.
Additional directory entry attributes may be get using 'sub{}(path,$_=name,file)' or 'expr'.
Directory entries may be filtered using 'sub{}(path,name,$_=file)' or 'mask'.
Path may be evaluated using 'sub{}' or 'do{}'.

See also C<rls>.



=item mget (?-options, remote dir, local dir, ?filter, ?time limit, ?approve sub{}(self,opt,file,file) -> success, ?all done sub{}(self,opt,dir,dir) | method, args) -> success

Replicates multiple remote files to local side.
Directory entries may be filtered using 'sub{}(path,name,$_=file)' or filemask syntax.
Limit of time to spend may be specified in seconds, L<$ENV{SMSECS}|Sys/Manage/Cmd> will be also considered.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-m>, C<-r>.

Return codes: 1 - done partial (up to time limit), 2 - done all, 3 - nothing todo.

See also C<fget>, C<mput>.

Examples:

$s->mget('C:\\tmp', 'c:\\tmp\\1', 'sub{/\\.(doc|ppt)/}');

$s->mget('C:\\tmp', 'c:\\tmp\\1', 'sub{/\\.(doc|ppt)/}', 'lcmd', 'cmd', '/c', 'dir', 'c:\\tmp\\1');

$s->mget('C:\\tmp', 'c:\\tmp\\1', 'sub{/\\.(doc|ppt)/}', 10, sub{print $_[2],"\n"}, 'lcmd', 'cmd', '/c', 'dir', 'c:\\tmp\\1');


=item mput (?-options, local dir, remote dir, ?filter, ?time limit, ?approve sub{}(self,opt,file,file) -> success, ?all done sub{}(self,opt,dir,dir) | method, args) -> success

Replicates multiple local files to remote side.
Directory entries may be filtered using 'sub{}(path,name,$_=file)' or filemask syntax.
Limit of time to spend may be specified in seconds, L<$ENV{SMSECS}|Sys/Manage/Cmd> will be also considered.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-m>, C<-r>.

Return codes: 1 - done partial (up to time limit), 2 - done all, 3 - nothing todo.

See also C<fput>, C<mget>.

Examples:

$s->mput('C:\\tmp','c:\\tmp\\1','sub{/\\.(doc|ppt)/}');

$s->mput('C:\\tmp', 'c:\\tmp\\1', 'sub{/\\.(doc|ppt)/}', 10, 'rcmd', 'cmd', '/c', 'dir', 'c:\\tmp\\1');

$s->mput('C:\\tmp', 'c:\\tmp\\1', 'sub{/\\.(doc|ppt)/}', 10, sub{print $_[2],"\n"}, 'rcmd', 'cmd', '/c', 'dir', 'c:\\tmp\\1');



=item new ('class', -option=>value,...) -> new object

=item new ('class', [command line arguments], -option=>value,...) -> new object

Creates new Sys::Manage::Conn object. 
See also C<set> syntax.



=item rcmd (?-options, command and arguments, ?filter sub{}) -> success

Remotely executes command given.
Command and arguments will be (re)quoted automatically,
but single command will not be (re)quoted to allow rich shell command lines.


Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-o->, C<-e->.

Default C<REMOTE SOURCE EXPANSION>: C<do{>.



=item rdo (?-options, local file, ?arguments,.., ?filter sub{}) -> result

=item rdo (?-options, interpreter call, '!', local file, ?arguments,.., ?filter sub{}) -> result

Transfers local file to temporary remote file,
executes and unlinks it, returns result of execution.
Command line arguments will be quoted automatically.
Result is considered as return value of Perl L<do|perlfunc> or !($?>>8).

'!' is default separator between optional interpreter command line 
and file to be executed, see C<-e!>.
Default interpreter associations may be found in the source code.
General default is Perl script via L<do|perlsyn> "filename".

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-o->, C<-e->, C<-e!>, C<-p+>.

With C<-p+> option, the whole directory of command file 
will be packed and transferred into temporary directory.
As C<fput> used, this directory will not be packed if it is packed file already,
i.e. 'rdo packedFile.zip/scriptFile.pl'




=item reval (?-options, perl source strings, ?filter sub{}) -> result

Remotely evaluates Perl source given.
Returns result transferred using L<Data::Dumper|Data/Dumper>.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-o->, C<-e->.

Default C<REMOTE SOURCE EXPANSION>: C<system(>.



=item rfread (?-options, remote file name) -> content

Reads remote file and returns it's content.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-b->.

Default C<REMOTE SOURCE EXPANSION>: C<do{>.

See also C<lfread>, C<rfget>, C<rfwrite>.



=item rfwrite (?-options, remote file name, content) -> success

Writes to remote file content given.

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-b->.

Default C<REMOTE SOURCE EXPANSION>: C<do{>.

See also C<lfwrite>, C<rfput>, C<rfread>.



=item rls (?-options, remote path, ?filter, ?attr get, ?container''[]{}) -> list || success

Lists remote directory.
Returns list or container given, undefined on error.
Container may be string, hash ref, array ref.
Additional directory entry attributes may be get using 'sub{}(path,$_=name,file)' or 'expr'.
Directory entries may be filtered using 'sub{}(path,name,$_=file)' or 'mask'.
Remote path may be evaluated using 'sub{}' or 'do{}'.

Example:
$s->rls('sub{"c:\\\\tmp"}','*.xml','stat $_')

Used C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>: C<-'>, C<-o->, C<-e->.

See also C<lls>.


=item set () -> (slot names of the object)

=item set (-option) -> value of the option given

=item set (-option=>value,...) -> self object

=item set ([command line arguments], -option=>value,...) -> self object

Retrieves and sets values of the C<SLOTS>.
$s->{-option} direct access may be used also, 
but C<set> smartly processes some options.



=item wmi (?get object) -> wmi

WMI connection or WMI object,
after C<connect>, if C<-init>='wmi'.


=back


=head1 METHOD CALL OPTIONS

=over

=item METHOD CALL OPTIONS

Method call options considered as a first argument of method call,
beginning with '-' sign and letter.
Several options may be catenated into options string 
without additional '-' signs.


=item -'

=item -"

Quoting for string arguments to embed into Perl source.
To use on agent side only.
Default is '"'.


=item -b-

=item -b0

'b'inmode off.
Switch off 'binmode' in file operations.
Reserved, do not use.


=item -e-

=item -e0

refuse STD'e'RR.
Remain remote STDERR unredirected.


=item -e!

=item -e@

=item -e#

'e'xecution separator.
Command line mark-up sign.


=item -l

=item -l+

'l'oop.
Start agent script file from C<agtfile>.


=item -m

=item -m+

=item -m1

'm'ove.
Move file, delete remote file after transfer to manager.


=item -o-

=item -o0


refuse STD'o'UT.
Remain remote STDOUT unredirected.


=item -p

=item -p+

=item -p1

'p'ack, alias C<-z+>.
Use C<-pack> archiver to compress source 
for transfer and extract into target directory.
C<fput> does not uses archiver if local file is already packed.


=item -r

=item -r+

=item -r1

'r'ecurse (subdirectories).


=item -s

=item -s+

=item -s1

's'tring or 's'calar.
Use string value as file content instead of file name.


=item -z

=item -z+

=item -z1

'z'ip, alias C<-p+>.



=back


=head1 REMOTE SOURCE EXPANSION

=over

=item REMOTE SOURCE EXPANSION

Writing Perl as string constants is difficult in escaping.
So, many methods accepts lists as arguments,
and an array reference (delimited by '[' and ']') may be argument too.
This array will be expanded to Perl and embedded within other arguments.

The full syntax is:

	[?command, ?-options, list of arguments]

Where

Command (optional) may be C<do{>, C<eval{>, C<system>, C<`>, see below.
Default command is specified within individual C<METHODS>,
default options (see C<METHOD CALL OPTIONS>) are inherited from method call.

Default C<do{> is used within C<rcmd> and C<fget>.

Default C<system(> is used within C<reval>.



=item do{

Evaluate Perl source within L<do|perlsyn>{}.



=item eval{

Evaluate Perl source within L<eval|perlsyn>{}.



=item system(

Execute command line via L<system|perlfunc> call.



=item `

Execute command line within L<`|perlop>L<`|perlop>.



=back

=head1 REMOTE EVALUATION ENVIRONMENT

=over


=item REMOTE EVALUATION ENVIRONMENT

There are several variables available for remotely evaluated Perl.


=item $ENV{SMELEM}

Computer name, for compatibility with 
L<Sys::Manage::Cmd|Sys/Manage/Cmd> command line embedding.


=item $m_

IO::Socket::INET object, connected to C<-agent>


=item $r_

Current value evaluated, current return value.


=item $t_

Temporary file name, alike C<-tmp>.


=item OLDERR

Saved STDERR file handle.


=item OLDIN

Saved STDIN file handle.


=item OLDOUT

Saved STDOUT file handle.


=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS, BUGS, PROBLEMS

=over


=item Limitations, Bugs, Problems


=over

Implemented and tested with Perl 5.6.0 and 5.8.8 on Windows 2000/2003.

Output of the remote execution should not contain C<-mark> value.

Interactive remote execution not supported.

Requoting of command lines is not exhaustive.

Binmode for file operations should be off, do not use C<-b->, it is reserved only.

Exhaustive timeouts may be implemented only with $SIG{ALRM} and alarm().

See at the top of the source code.

=back


=head1 VERSION

=over

=item '2009-12-28'

C<Limitations, Bugs, Problems> added.


=item '2009-03-23'

C<connect> changed: IWbemLocator.ConnectServer(...,wbemConnectFlagUseMaxWait) used when C<-timeout> is undefined or true.


=item '2008-10-13'

Command line quoting/escaping corrected for 'rsh' C<-init>.


=item '2008-08-25'

OS error info extended.


=item '2008-05-13'

Transfer of $@ corrected removing [\r\n] on agent.


=item '2007-11-08'

C<fput> and C<fget> corrected with attempt to delete unwriteable target file.


=item '2007-08-31'

Extended C<mget>, C<mput>.
Return codes defined and approvement sub{} added to watch replication.
Final 'all done' call added to extend L<Sys::Manage::CmdFile|Sys/Manage/CmdFile> command files.


=item '2007-08-14'

New C<isscript>.


=item '2007-08-10'


New C<-retbps> and C<-retexc>, 
improved time limit condition in C<mget> and C<mput>.

L<$ENV{SMSECS}|Sys/Manage/Cmd> considered in C<mget> and C<mput>.


=item '2007-03-22'

Fixed quoting of arguments in C<rcmd>.


=item '2007-02-13'

Fixed error indicators ($!, $^E, $@) transfer translating [\n\r\t].

Fixed C<-wmisis> agent file.

Fixed C<mget>/C<mput> recurse.


=item '2007-02-01'

New C<-reject>.

New C<-wmisis>, changed C<connect>.


=item '2007-01-30'

New C<-wmisil>, changed C<connect>.


=item '2007-01-29'

New C<mput> and C<mget> methods.


=item '2007-01-26'

New C<rls> and C<lls> methods.


=item '2007-01-24'

C<connect> fixed
automatically decreasing WMI ImpersonationLevel from 4 to 3 when security error.


=item '2005-12-26'

C<fget> correction: manager file is created after agent file opened.


=item '2005-12-20'

Publishing 0.51 version.


=item '2005-12-02'

New C<agtfile> method and command.
New C<lcmd> command.


=item '2005-11-25'

Published 0.50 version.


=item  '2005-09-19'

Started


=back

=head1 LICENSE

This is free software; 
you can use redistribute it and/or modify it 
under the same terms as Perl itself.



=head1 AUTHOR

Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>, for block

=cut

