=head1 NAME

Sys::Manage - Systems management commands/scripts environment


=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Sys::Manage::Cmd|Sys/Manage/Cmd> - Systems management command volley

L<Sys::Manage::Conn|Sys/Manage/Conn> - Connection to remote Perl

L<Sys::Manage::Schedule|Sys/Manage/Schedule> - Scriptic schedule trunk

L<Sys::Manage::Desktops|Sys/Manage/Desktops> - Centralised management for desktop computers

See particular modules.


=head1 VERSION

=over


=item '2008-03-03'

Publishing 0.59 version.

Improved L<Sys::Manage::Desktops|Sys/Manage/Desktops> module.


=item '2007-12-27'

Publishing 0.58 version.

New L<Sys::Manage::Desktops|Sys/Manage/Desktops> module.

Corrections in L<Sys::Manage::Conn|Sys/Manage/Conn>.

Extensions in L<Sys::Manage::Schedule|Sys/Manage/Schedule>.


=item '2007-09-07'

Publishing 0.57 version.


=item '2007-08-31'

Extended L<Sys::Manage::Conn::mget|Sys/Manage/Conn>, L<Sys::Manage::Conn::mput|Sys/Manage/Conn>.
Return codes defined and approvement sub{} added to watch replication.
Final 'all done' call added to extend L<Sys::Manage::CmdFile|Sys/Manage/CmdFile> command files.


=item '2007-08-14'

New L<Sys::Manage::Conn::isscript|Sys/Manage/Conn>.


=item '2007-08-13'

L<Sys::Manage::Cmd -dirl|Sys/Manage/Cmd> log truncation dehosed.

Behaviour of L<Sys::Manage::Schedule -logpid|Sys/Manage/Schedule> files
improved, content changed, cleanup implemented.


=item '2007-08-10'

New L<$ENV{SMSECS}|Sys/Manage/Cmd> for time limit.
Used in L<Sys::Manage::CmdFile|Sys/Manage/CmdFile> 
and L<Sys::Manage::Conn|Sys/Manage/Conn>.


=item '2007-03-30'

Publishing 0.56 version.


=item '2007-03-23'

Fixed L<Sys::Manage::CmdEscort|Sys/Manage/CmdEscort> internal command line escaping condition.


=item '2007-03-22'

Fixed L<Sys::Manage::Conn rcmd|Sys/Manage/Conn> quoting of arguments.


=item '2007-03-09'

Publishing 0.55 version.


=item '2007-03-07'

Changed L<Sys::Manage::CmdEscort|Sys/Manage/CmdEscort>
- added runtime hardlinks from './log-' files to './var' directory
- for monitoring and diagnostics during runtime.

New L<Sys::Manage::Schedule -logpid|Sys/Manage/Schedule>
to create runtime pid file for monitoring and diagnostics during runtime.


=item '2007-02-13'

Fixed L<Sys::Manage::Conn|Sys/Manage/Conn>
error indicators ($!, $^E, $@) transfer translating [\n\r\t].

Fixed L<Sys::Manage::Conn -wmisis|Sys/Manage/Conn> agent file.


=item '2007-02-01'

New L<Sys::Manage::Conn -reject|Sys/Manage/Conn> paramerter
in addition to L<Sys::Manage::Cmd -reject|Sys/Manage/Cmd>.

New L<Sys::Manage::Conn -wmisis|Sys/Manage/Conn> paramerter
to use agent as Windows service.


=item '2007-01-30'

New L<Sys::Manage::Conn -wmisil|Sys/Manage/Conn> paramerter
to describe Windows WMI impersonation.


=item '2007-01-29'

New L<Sys::Manage::Conn::mput|Sys/Manage/Conn> and L<Sys::Manage::Conn::mget|Sys/Manage/Conn> methods.

New L<Sys::Manage::Cmd mput|Sys/Manage/Cmd> and L<Sys::Manage::Cmd mget|Sys/Manage/Cmd> commands.


=item '2007-01-26'

New L<Sys::Manage::Conn::rls|Sys/Manage/Conn> and L<Sys::Manage::Conn::lls|Sys/Manage/Conn> methods.

L<Sys::Manage::Cmd|Sys/Manage/Cmd> description of quoting corrected.

L<Sys::Manage::Cmd|Sys/Manage/Cmd> internal command line escaping implemented.

L<Sys::Manage::Conn::connect|Sys/Manage/Conn> fixed
automatically decreasing WMI ImpersonationLevel from 4 to 3 when security error.



=item '2006-06-30'

Publishing 0.54 version, some corrections made.


=item '2006-04-24'

C<qclad>/C<qclat> changed considering backslash tail.
Also C<qclad> uses C<qclat> now.


=item '2006-04-03'

Publishing 0.53 version, some corrections made.


=item '2006-02-17'

Publishing 0.52 version, some corrections made.


=item '2005-12-20'

Publishing 0.51 version.

L<Sys::Manage::Cmd|Sys/Manage/Cmd>: 
new C<cmdfile> predefined command;
C<cmd> and C<daemonize> methods;
C<-gx> and C<-u> options;
C<-vc>, C<-vt>, C<-lg>, C<-lv>, C<-lw> options extensions.

L<Sys::Manage::Conn|Sys/Manage/Conn>:
new C<agtfile> and C<lcmd> methods and commands.

L<Sys::Manage::Schedule|Sys/Manage/Schedule>:
new C<cmdfck> method.


=item '2005-11-25'

Publishing 0.50 version.


=item '2005-09-09'

Started


=back


=head1 LICENSE

This is free software; 
you can use redistribute it and/or modify it 
under the same terms as Perl itself.

...a help in the revival of Pomor'e will be useful: L<http://www.pomor-rus.org>...

=head1 AUTHOR


Andrew V Makarow <makarow at mail.com>,
for my colleagues

=cut

